---
layout: news
title:  "Expanding Opportunities and Investments in Japanese Sustainable Fisheries"
date:   2015-01-30
teaser-text: As one of the world’s leading seafood producing, importing, and consuming nations, Japan has an inordinate influence on global fishery and ocean health. Since antiquity Japanese culture, society, and cuisine have been shaped by Japan’s relationship with the sea.
hero-image: https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/staticassets.oceanoutcomes.org/Denis+Semenov+2.jpg
featured: TRUE
---
## JAPAN

As one of the world’s leading seafood producing, importing, and consuming nations, Japan has an inordinate influence on global fishery and ocean health. Since antiquity Japanese culture, society, and cuisine have been shaped by Japan’s relationship with the sea. These trends continue today: 

{% video UkUtmSGctrc %}

### He's had quite an evening

He's had quite an evening. Someone stole his wheelchair. Did you see who it was? Red bearded man. You mean 999. Yes, yes, I mean 999! Yeah, I know. That's the American one, you berk! Oh my God. I didn't even know Smarties made a cereal. They don't. It's just Smarties in a bowl with milk. You're not comfortable with your sexuality? Oh, I'm very comfortable with my sexuality, I just don't want to be slapped in the face with their sexuality. Huh, what you think I'm afraid of you? I'm not afraid of you. I'll put this over here, with the rest of the fire. It's my term for my time of the month. Oh. What time of the month? The weekend?

(https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/staticassets.oceanoutcomes.org/Denis+Semenov+2.jpg)


0115... no... 0118... no... 0118 999 ... 3. Hello? Is this the emergency services? Then which country am I speaking to? Hello? Hello? He's had quite an evening. Someone stole his wheelchair. Did you see who it was? Red bearded man. Hello, IT. Have you tried forcing an unexpected reboot? You know, it's high tide. But we're not on the coast. I'm closed for maintenance! Closed for maintenance? I've fallen to the communists! Well, they do have some strong arguments. How can you two... Don't Google the question, Moss! Hello? I've had a bit of a tumble. I mean, they have no respect for us up there! No respect whatsoever! We're all just drudgeons to them!
 
You're not comfortable with your sexuality? Oh, I'm very comfortable with my sexuality, I just don't want to be slapped in the face with their sexuality. We don't need no education. Yes you do. You've just used a double negative. We don't need no education. Yes you do. You've just used a double negative. So, remember the new number! 0118 999! 88199, 9119 725! ... 3! No, no, that's the music you heard when it come on. I'm going to murder you... You bloody woman! It's my term for my time of the month. Oh. What time of the month? The weekend?

You mean 999. Yes, yes, I mean 999! Yeah, I know. That's the American one, you berk! I've got Aunt Irma visiting. Oh, do you not like Aunt Irma? I've got an aunt like that. I mean, they have no respect for us up there! No respect whatsoever! We're all just drudgeons to them! Hello? I've had a bit of a tumble. Hello? I've had a bit of a tumble. I don't see how they couldn't just keep it as it was. How hard is it to remember 911? Yes! If there were such a thing as a drudgeon, that is what we'd be to them.
