---
layout: news
title:  "With Recent Addition, Half of Kamchatka’s Wild Salmon Fisheries Now in MSC or a FIP"
subtitle: *“MSC certification can bring higher value for fish along with new market opportunities and it also gives our business stability as we work to keep our salmon resources in a good shape.” Andrei Bokov, Chief Technology Officer for Vityaz Avto and Delta* 
date:   2015-03-23
teaser-text: In face of tough economic and political conditions, a new fishery on the Kamchatka Peninsula in eastern Russia entered the MSC assessment process last week.
hero-image: https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/staticassets.oceanoutcomes.org/hero+photos/news4ahero.jpg
featured: TRUE
---

In face of tough economic and political conditions, a new fishery on the Kamchatka Peninsula in eastern Russia entered the MSC assessment process last week, publicly committing to improve the sustainability of their pink, chum, and coho salmon fisheries. The two companies, Vityaz Avto and Delta (which also operate the MSC certified Ozernaya sockeye fishery), aim to increase the sustainability of up to 30,000 tons of salmon caught on the West Coast of Kamchatka (Kol, Vorovskaya, Opala, Golygina, Koshegoshek, Kol, and Ozernaya rivers). With this commitment, over half of Kamchatka’s wild salmon fisheries are in third party certification assessment or a, or in a Fishery Improvement Project (FIP). 

“MSC certification can bring higher value for fish along with new market opportunities,” says Andrei Bokov, Chief Technology Officer for Vityaz Avto and Delta, “and it also gives our business stability as we work to keep our salmon resources in a good shape.”

The participation of these Russian salmon producers ensures the development of a stable supply of product by fishermen working towards achieving that is working to achieve sustainability and/or FIP requirements. It also gives major seafood buyers an alternative source of sustainable product to meet their wild salmon needs in the global marketplace. 

“The Kamchatka Peninsula is wild salmon country,” says Brian Caouette, Founder and Director of Programs at Ocean Outcomes. “The region’s fishermen produce the world’s second largest haul of wild salmon after Alaska. We applaud their efforts to improve the sustainability of such globally important fisheries.”

These developments on Kamchatka stem from come on the heels  over five years of work by of a more than five year effort on the part of Ocean Outcomes, Wild Salmon Center, WWF Russia and other groups to engage and support the sustainability of wild salmon fisheries across the Russian Far East. Since 2009, three fisheries have been MSC certified (Iturup, NE Sakhalin, Ozernaya) and another two fisheries are in MSC full assessment. Nearly all of these fisheries have been part of improvement projects operated by Ocean Outcomes staff whothat are working to increase the transparency and accountability of these fisheries, simultaneously while trying to building market value for fisheries that committed to improvement. 

“Fishery improvement can be challengingis hard. Sometimes iIt’s one step back and two steps forward,” says Caouette. “Some fisheries like the Aniva Bay fishery have back-slided since we first started working with them.” Poaching continues to bedevil many fisheries and. Also, domestic markets in Russia do not always demand sustainable product. FSo, for somemany local fishermen, the market reward is not always there.”

However, for Russian fishing companies like Vityaz Avto and Delta, fisheries which that are targeting premium and export markets and which saw a significant return on investment when their Ozernaya fishery was certified, there has clearly been value demonstrated in terms of becoming sustainable.  

For more information on these fisheries, visit our Salmon FIP Tracker. 

The full MSC press release can be viewed here.
