---
layout: news
title:  Hatchery Best Practices Finding Success in Russia
date: 2016-08-08
teaser-text: The Russian Far East is home to some of the most prolific salmon runs on the planet. In fact, 40% of the world’s wild salmon comes from Russia. In Kamchatka salmon runs are flourishing, but sadly the same cannot be said for Sakhalin Island.
hero-image: https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/staticassets.oceanoutcomes.org/hero+photos/placeholderhero.jpg
featured: TRUE
---
###The Russian Far East is home to some of the most prolific salmon runs on the planet. 
In fact, 40% of the world’s wild salmon comes from Russia, the majority of which is harvested by commercial fisheries on Sakhalin Island and the Kamchatka Peninsula. In Kamchatka salmon runs are flourishing, but sadly the same cannot be said for Sakhalin Island where poaching, resource development, and hatchery production have combined to produce an adverse environment for salmon. With poor returns five years running, this season is shaping up to be another bust as Sakhalin fishermen have only harvested 22% of the allocated pink catch limit. 
Hatchery production of chum and pink salmon in the Russian Far East is primarily concentrated on Iturup and Sakhalin Islands, where hatchery infrastructure has existed since before WWII. In recent years, these islands alone accounted for an astounding 80% of the country’s hatchery releases. In 2008, while still a program of Wild Salmon Center, we completed a Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) pre-assessment of a fishery in Sakhalin in partnership with Sakhalin Salmon Initiative. This pre-assessment shed light on the practices and management surrounding hatcheries. The findings were alarming. 
Despite widely distributed and accredited research concerns regarding interactions between wild and hatchery-raised fish populations (for instance: a loss of fitness due to interbreeding, competition for resources, influence on the homing processes of neighboring fish, and spread of disease, all of which can lead to declines in wild salmon populations), these hatcheries were developed on the largest and most prominent natural spawning rivers in the region. Furthermore, there were no marking systems in place, a common best practice in hatcheries, in order to monitor the impacts of hatcheries on wild salmon runs. Hatcheries were pumping out hundreds of millions of fish without any way of measuring of the impacts this was having on declining wild populations.
As hatchery (mis)management emerged as the single greatest impediment to MSC certification, these concerns gained traction among major stakeholders. Our team began working with government hatcheries in 2009 to mark otoliths (ear bones) of chum and pink salmon in the Sakhalin and Kuril Islands. This was effectively the first program of this nature in the Russian Far East. One year later our scientists were in the field collecting dead salmon to conduct otolith analysis. This allowed us to estimate the proportion of hatchery fish in fishery catches, escapements and hatchery broodstocks, and to compare relative differences between hatchery and wild populations such as the duration and dynamic of runs, size-sex composition, and survival indices. The results of this work, which were made public, drastically altered hatchery practices in the region.
Scientists found that almost 20% of fish in the main rivers of Southeast Sakhalin were hatchery fish and thus the survival rate of these salmon was significantly lower than their wild counterparts (yet fisheries were indiscriminately targeting both hatchery and wild salmon assuming mortality rate was equal). Based on this data, future hatchery development shifted to river systems without strong naturally occurring runs. Scientists also found chum salmon hatchery programs were more effective than pink salmon programs. This resulted in a shift in hatchery production from pink to chum and allowed fisheries to target returning hatchery chum while allowing wild pink populations to spawn and attempt recovery.
Fast forward to 2016. After eight years of work in the region, government hatcheries now mark an impressive 65% of all pink salmon and 61% of all chum salmon released into the wild. Moreover, Russian hatchery releases appear to have plateaued, as the United States and Japan continue to release more hatchery fish into the ocean than Russia does. While just one piece of the puzzle, good hatchery practices are vital to ensuring sustainable fisheries. With better practices in place, we’re optimistic Sakhalin runs and commercial fisheries have started the long path to recovery.
While this progress should be applauded, Russia, and especially Russia’s most productive hatchery fishing grounds, the Sakhalin and Kuril islands are not out of the woods. Longevity of data collection and commitment from shareholders at every step along the supply chain is critical for these changes to hold. O2 is proud to have contributed to this shift in mentality and management and will continue doing what we do - creating a platform for conversations, conducting stock assessments, developing innovative programs and management strategies, and working closely with those who experience these changes first-hand. There is work yet to be done.
